== Bakgrund ==

From Wikipedia:
"JavaScript (JS) is an open source client-side scripting language
commonly implemented as part of a web browser in order to create
enhanced user interfaces and dynamic websites."

Netscape had an idea to put the easy o use HyperTalk event driven based on button and fields
brendan ike. Scheme interpreter.

Java, Scheme, Self

JavaScript

But you cant do scheme. To weird looking. "Make it more like Java". So he desigend a program with
the syntax that looked like java, function model of scheme, prototypal objects of self.

Developed under the name Mocha, LiveScript was the official name for the
language when it first shipped in beta releases of Netscape Navigator 2.0
in September 1995.

Java script is
    object oriented
    functional

Today Javascript is mainly a language for the web platform can also be found in:

PDF Documents
Desktop Programs and Widgets (Windows 8)
Server side as Javascript VMs (most notably node.js)

== Varför ==

Why should you care about javascript and for whom is this presentation made for ?
Well nowadays Javascript will knock on your door for ANYTHING web related or
even remotely web related that your customers are doing.
When I joined Netligth, I started at the Betsson site team with the thought
 "Hey its Web development. 13 year olds can do it .. How hard can it be ? ",
However, soon I discovered that I was not by far the fastest and most successful
 developer in that team, and it was not HTML or CSS that held me back, it was JS.

Questions like:
    How do you debug JS ?
    What is JQuery ?
    Browser compatibility issues ?
    Why doesn't this code that I just wrote work like Java ?
    JS is a weak typed. What does that really mean?
    Help, I have 1500 lines of unstructured JS, How do I structure it ?
    How do I find information about JS Apis .. ?
    etc etc

Wilhelm here has had the same experience in his professional life and as two typical
Netlighters we started aquiering this knowledge on the side and now one can call
us Java script ninjas.

This presentation is made for those with no js background and want to skip the
headache and ordeal of aquiring this knowledge.

Here are the bulletpoints:
* Features of Javascript
* Structure JS, the Netlight way.
* Web Development
    * Client Side
    * JQuery
    * Browser c

    bla bla bla

